Tags: #core 

Exploration activities that happen continually as the group explores are meant to be narrative first and foremost, with the player describing to you what they're doing, and then the GM determining which activity applies and describing any details or alterations for the situation.

If a player says, “I'm Avoiding Notice,” they should add more detail, like what precautions they're taking. Likewise, if a player says they're looking for traps and keeping their shield raised and covering the group's tracks, they should say which of these they are prioritizing to narrow down the activity.

This does not apply for exploration activities that are discrete and occur when the group is taking a pause or zooming in on a particular action, such as Treat Wounds. Characters can always drop out of a continual exploration activity to perform a discrete one (even if they are fatigued and can't sustain an exploration activity as they travel), and they can change activities at any time.

## Gameplay Tips

- As a GM, use the players descriptions of their specific actions and overall goal to 'decide' which exploration activity they are really doing.
- 'Follow the Expert' coins a term called 'Exploration Tactic', but that term is never further defined. For increased exploration clarity, I use this term to apply to any non-discrete exploration activity. This list can be found on the [[Activities, Exploration Tactic Index]].  
- If a player is using any exploration activity that is not an 'Exploration Tactic', it usually requires too much focus do any other activity at the same time.
- If a player is trying to do multiple Exploration Tactics at once, you can decide what sounds reasonable, but you should clarify that multi-tasking is hard and one tactic should be 'prioritized' over the others. Allowing a player to specify more than two is not recommended. Some tactics are not simultaneously compatible.
	- For instance if a player is walking through a dungeon and trying to 'Search' for traps and hazards, while 'Avoiding Notice', there is nothing that says they can't _try_ to do both these things, but they probably shouldn't get all benefits simultaneously. Here are a few possible similar scenarios with this player.
	  1) The GM prompts the player for their priority, and is told it's 'Search'. The player goes through several areas with no traps, but reaches an area with an enemy and initiative is called for. Despite not prioritizing 'Avoid Notice', the player is told something like, "You just barely ducked into the shadows when you see a kobold, you can choose to roll stealth for initiative". 
	  2) The GM prompts the player for their priority, and is told it's 'Avoid Notice'. The player then approaches an area with a trap that requires an active search. There are no enemies in this area to detect the player. The GM grants the player the search check even though it was not their first priority. The player detects and avoids the trap and continues on. If they encounter an enemy in the next area, they will still get the benefit of 'Avoid Notice'.
	  3) The GM prompts the player for their priority, and is told it's 'Avoid Notice'. The player then approaches an area with a trap that requires an active search, but there is also an enemy in this area. Instead of resolving detection of the trap, the GM calls for initiative before the player reaches the trap. The player is told something like, "You just ducked into the shadows when you see a kobold, you can choose to roll stealth for initiative". The player is unaware of the trap between him and the kobold, and now will only detect it if they use a Seek action.
	  4) The GM prompts the player for their priority, and is told it's 'Search'. The player then approaches an area with a trap that requires an active search, but there is also an enemy in this area. The GM grants the player the search check. The player succeeds in detecting the trap, but the GM will also call for initiative. The player is told something like, "You've been trying to duck from shadow to shadow, but you are focused on the terrain when something catches your eye. You stop to focus and spot a trip wire 10 feet in front of you. Unfortunately, It's at this moment that a nearby kobold sees you stopped in the hallway. Roll initiative. You don't get the benefit for Avoiding Notice".